Hello everyone, we're back with Gordon,
and we're going to talk about reinforcement learning.
So Gordon, you're most well known in the quant and
academic communities for your work on applying reinforcement learning in finance.
How's reinforcement learning being applied in finance right now,
and what do you think it will be used for in the future?
Well, right now, inside of some of
the largest investment banks that do algorithmic execution,
reinforcement learning is being used to help those algorithms make
better decisions at the microstructure level.
This is because reinforcement learning
does very well in situations where you have a lot of data,
and yet a finite action space.
So for example in execution,
the available actions typically take the form of choosing to
place limit orders at the bid or the ask or canceling orders.
So it's a discrete action space and that makes
traditional optimization methods usually based on
a continuous space more challenging to apply.
In the future, there are a lot of
potential applications for reinforcement learning to solve
various kinds of optimal hedging and optimal execution problems,
especially for options and other derivatives.
Interestingly, in some sense,
the derivatives community has been using
reinforcement learning all along without necessarily even realizing it.
What I mean by that is,
financial derivatives are priced according to
the optimal value function of the replicating strategy.
Reinforcement learning is simply a way of finding
the optimal value function in a very general and often model-free way,
in a way that makes it easier to incorporate transaction costs.
Is there enough interest in reinforcement learning right now in the quant community?
Does it show a lot of promise?
Is it an active area of research?
I think it's a very active area of research.
For example, my longtime friend and collaborator, Peter Comb,
and I were invited to contribute an article to
the first inaugural issue of the Journal of Financial Data Science.
Our article was on dynamic hedging of
option positions in illiquid markets using reinforcement learning.
There have also been a number of very interesting papers by
my colleague Igor Halperin from the NYU Tandon School of Engineering.
Great. Are there any hedge funds or
trading firms that are using reinforcement learning right now?
Yes. I believe the largest investment banks who are also the most sophisticated on
the algorithmic execution side have actually
been researching it and potentially using it for years.
That means that hedge funds are then using it indirectly
because they rely on those banks for execution services.
Great. Are there any limitations or
problems that you foresee in applying reinforcement learning through finance?
Yes. I think the technology itself needs to get better.
There has been a lot of excitement around deep reinforcement learning,
where the nonlinear function approximator
that is used to approximate the optimal value function,
is everyone's favorite function approximator on neural network.
So in this area, unfortunately,
the technology is often rather slow to converge.
Sometimes requiring days to train,
and even that is on specialized hardware.
For example, AlphaGo Zero.
Certain key theoretical results,
the one would ideally like to have on convergence of the method, are also lacking.
Neural networks can get stuck in local minima, for example,
that prevents proving a lot of convergence results that we have for simpler methods.
So is there a different nonlinear function approximator
that will be more convenient to work with?
Maybe, but a lot more research needs to be done.
It feels like we're at the stage of development right now that
standard optimization methods were out in the 1960s.
Well, thank you so much Gordon for your time.
Looking forward to seeing you again soon.
Thanks for having me.